Influential members of the House Ways and Means Committee introduced legislation that would restrict how the new savings-and-loan bailout agency can raise capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts .
The bill , whose backers include Chairman Dan Rostenkowski -LRB- D. , Ill. -RRB- , would prevent the Resolution Trust Corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an RTC-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget .
The bill intends to restrict the RTC to Treasury borrowings only , unless the agency receives specific congressional authorization .
`` Such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct Treasury borrowing , '' said Rep. Fortney Stark -LRB- D. , Calif. -RRB- , the bill 's chief sponsor .
The complex financing plan in the S&L bailout law includes raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created RTC .
This financing system was created in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit .
Another $ 20 billion would be raised through Treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates .
But the RTC also requires `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that are sold , until the assets can be sold separately .
That debt would be paid off as the assets are sold , leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years .
`` It 's a problem that clearly has to be resolved , '' said David Cooke , executive director of the RTC .
The agency has already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent S&Ls , and it is likely to sell or merge 600 by the time the bailout concludes .
Absent other working capital , he said , the RTC would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until cash could be raised by selling the bad assets .
`` We would have to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , '' he said .
The complicated language in the huge new law has muddied the fight .
The law does allow the RTC to borrow from the Treasury up to $ 5 billion at any time .
Moreover , it says the RTC 's total obligations may not exceed $ 50 billion , but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt , and subtracting from it the market value of the assets the RTC holds .
But Congress did n't anticipate or intend more public debt , say opponents of the RTC 's working-capital plan , and Rep. Charles Schumer -LRB- D. , N.Y . -RRB- said the RTC Oversight Board has been remiss in not keeping Congress informed .
`` That secrecy leads to a proposal like the one from Ways and Means , which seems to me sort of draconian , '' he said .
`` The RTC is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the Hill if they want that kind of flexibility . ''
The Ways and Means Committee will hold a hearing on the bill next Tuesday .
We 're about to see if advertising works .
Hard on the heels of Friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that 's followed , a few big brokerage firms are rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : Keep on investing , the market 's just fine .
Their mission is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as individual investors did in droves after the crash in October
Just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms rushed out ads to calm investors .
This time around , they 're moving even faster .
PaineWebber Inc. filmed a new television commercial at 4 p.m. EDT yesterday and had it on the air by last night .
Fidelity Investments placed new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today .
Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc. by yesterday afternoon had already written new TV ads .
It considered running them during tomorrow night 's World Series broadcast but decided not to when the market recovered yesterday .
Other brokerage firms , including Merrill Lynch & Co. , were plotting out potential new ad strategies .
The brokerage firms learned a lesson the last time around , when frightened investors flooded the phone lines and fled the market in a panic .
This time , the firms were ready .
Fidelity , for example , prepared ads several months ago in case of a market plunge .
When the market went into its free fall Friday afternoon , the investment firm ordered full pages in the Monday editions of half a dozen newspapers .
The ads touted Fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` Fidelity Is Ready For Your Call . ''
A Fidelity spokesman says the 800-line , which already was operating but which many clients did n't know about , received about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend .
`` A lot of investor confidence comes from the fact that they can speak to us , '' he says .
`` To maintain that dialogue is absolutely crucial .
It would have been too late to think about on Friday .
We had to think about it ahead of time . ''
Today 's Fidelity ad goes a step further , encouraging investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with Fidelity .
Underneath the headline `` Diversification , '' it counsels , `` Based on the events of the past week , all investors need to know their portfolios are balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility . ''
It goes on to plug a few diversified Fidelity funds by name .
PaineWebber also was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
In the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm began taping commercials in-house , ultimately getting its timing down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night .
It also negotiated an arrangement with Cable News Network under which CNN would agree to air its last-minute creations .
The new PaineWebber commercial , created with ad agency Saatchi & Saatchi Co. , features Mary Farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish .
Taped just as the market closed yesterday , it offers Ms. Farrell advising , `` We view the market here as going through a relatively normal cycle ... .
We continue to feel that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation . ''
The spot was scheduled to appear three times on CNN last night .
